# Question 1 (Warm Up) - 10 Points

> Multiple solutions may apply. Select all that are applicable.

## Question 1.1

> For the expression (a || c) && (b || !c), the test suite

> (a, b, c) = {(T, F, T), (F, F, T), (F, T, T), (T, F, F)}

provides:

a. MC/DC Coverage  
**b. Decision Coverage**  
**c. Basic Condition Coverage**  
d. Compound Condition Coverage  


              T            F
test #1 -> (T || T) && (F || !T) -> F
              T            F
test #2 -> (F || T) && (F || !T) -> F
              T            T
test #3 -> (F || T) && (T || !T) -> T
              T            T
test #4 -> (T || F) && (F || !F) -> T


## Question 1.2

> Acceptance testing is a critical validation activity.

**a. True**
b. False

## Question 1.3

> All DU pairs coverage requires that all paths between each definition 
> and each of its usages be covered by at least one test case.

a. True
**b. False**

## Question 1.4

> A banking website that displays an error message 
> and stops all normal operations when a database connection 
> cannot be established is which of the following:

a. Correct with respect to its specification. 
b. Safe to operate. 
c. Robust in the presence of exceptional conditions.
**d. Considered to have passed verification.**

## Question 1.5

> In random ascent, we take the first neighbouring solution 
> to show any improvement over the current solution as the new solution.

**a. True**
b. False

## Question 1.6

> If all mutants are detected by a test suite,
> we have proof that all real faults have been detected as well.

a. True 
**b. False**

## Question 1.7

> You are designing a navigation app for mobile phones. 
> You have designed the app to resend information if an update request fails.
> What reliability measures would be of most interest to you?

a. Availability
b. Probability of failure on demand
*c. Mean time between failures*
*d. Rate of fault occurrence*

# Question 2 (Quality Scenarios) - 10 Points     
 
Consider an online video streaming site, like Netflix. This site allows users to search and browse titles, save them to playlists, and stream them on demand. This site must serve high-definition video to thousands of concurrent users around the world.

Identify one performance and one availability requirement that you think would be necessary for this system and develop a quality scenario to verify each of them, with a Description, System State, System Environment, External Stimulus, Required System Response, and Response Measure for each.

O.S.S E.R.R -> Overview, Stimulus, System State, System Environment, Required Response, Response Measure


Performance Requirement:
The system shall repond to low connectivity by 
reducing quality so as to maintain an uninterrupted watching experience.


|Stage|Performance|
|-|-|
|Overview|User (Jim) is home sick from work and wants to takes their mine off of how dreadful they are feeling by watching videos, however their network is experience high amounts of latency|
|Stimulus|network of end user is unstable result in low quality connection|
|System State| fully operational, no network instability on the system side |
|System Environment| standard operation, detection of user connection network latency |
|Required Response| reduce the quality of the streamed content to better maintain uninterrupt viewing|
|Response Measure| system is able to reduce quality enough that content is still viewable and connection is maintained, buffering should be minimal |

Availability Requirement:
The system shall respond to loss of connection by informing the user that the system is experience network difficulties.

|Stage|Availability|
|-|-|
|Overview|User (Jim) is having a netflix and chill with his significant other (John)when the system experience a loss of connection with database|
|Stimulus|loss of connection the the video database|
|System State|normal and operational|
|System Environment| user is logged into account, system is unable to make requests to database of videos|
|Required Response|inform the user that the system is experience technical difficulties and that the user can still view videos they have downloaded locally|
|Response Measure|the system remains function although in a reduced capacity users able to view downloaded content, information status message is displayed|


# Question 3 (Testing Concepts) - 10 Points
Choose one stage of testing (unit testing, system testing, GUI testing, exploratory testing, or acceptance testing). Explain in your own words what that stage is, how systems are tested in that stage, how it differs from the other listed stages of testing, and the types of faults that are most likely to be exposed by that stage (that would be missed during the other stages).

exploratory -> on the fly testing via tours

unit testing -> testing individual functions and classes

system testing -> testing how classes interact with eachother / system behavior as a whole

GUI testing - does the button do whats supposed, aria labels, screen reader compatible, sane tabing order, good color scheme (colorblind compatible) not to contrasting.

acceptance testing - (validation activity) A/B testing, alpha/beta besting.
- netflix is actually a really good example of a company that does A/B testing
  rolls out feature to small subsect of users and takes measurements on whether its an improvement.

# Question 4 (Exploratory Testing) - 8 Points 
 
> Exploratory testing typically is guided by “tours”. Each tour describes a different way of thinking about the system-under-test and prescribes how the tester should act when they explore the functionality of the system.  
 
1. Describe one of the tours that we discussed in class OTHER than the supermodel tour.
2. Consider a web-based education management system like LADOK, where one can 
register for courses, see past courses taken, apply for credits or graduation, manage their student information, apply for a university, or transfer to a new university. Describe three actions you might take during exploratory testing of this system, based on the tour you described above.

saboteur - explain be a hacker on a small scale
- actively breakshit


#Question 5 (Unit Testing) - 8 Points 
 
Consider a Java method for converting a date, expressed in String form (“YYYY-MM-DD) to an instance of a CustomDate class (CustomDate has integer-typed fields Year, Month, and Day).  
 CustomDate convertToDate (String toConvert) throws IllegalFormatException; 
 
For example, convertToDate(“2020-05-01”) returns a CustomDate object containing the 
fields (year=2020, month=5, day=1).  
 
e.x. if (CustomDate.year == 2020) { System.out.println(“It’s 2020”); }  
 
Write JUnit-format test cases to do the following: 
1. Check that a well-formatted and legal date string returns the expected field values from 
the CustomDate object. 
2. Check that a well-formatted, but illegal date results in the method throwing a 
IllegalFormatException (for example, “2020-31-12” is illegal because there is no 
31st month of the year).


oss err

```java
void testFormatedDateReturnsCorrectValue()
{
  CustomDate cd;
  cd = convertToDate("2022-05-01");
  boolean isValid = cd.year == 2022 && cd.month == 5 && cd.day == 1;
  assertEqual(true, isValid);
}

```

```java 
void testInvalidDateWellFormmated()
{
  assertThrows(IllegalFormatedException.class, () -> {
    CustomDate cd = convertToDate("2020-31-12");
  })
}
```

# Question 6 (Structural Testing) - 15 Points

> For the following method:

```java
1. public int largestPrimeFactor(int n) { 
2.    int factor = -1; 
3.    for (int i = 2; i * i <= n; i++) { 
4.       if (n % i != 0) {  
5.           continue;  
6.       } 
7.       factor = i; 
8.       while (n % i == 0) { 
9.           n /= i; 
10.       } 
11.   } 
12.   if (n == 1) { 
13.       return factor; 
14.   } else{ 
15.       return n; 
16. } 
```

1. Draw the control-flow graph for this method. You may refer to line numbers instead of writing the full code. 
2. Develop test input that will provide statement and branch coverage. For each test, list the line numbers of the statements covered as well as the branches covered (use the line number and T or F, i.e., “3-T” for the true branch of line 3).
3. Do your test cases also achieve path coverage? Briefly explain your answer.

```
                 [1]
                  ↓
                 [2]
             F    ↓    T
        ----------<3>----------
    F   ↓   T              F  ↓     T
 -----<12>-----         -----<4>----------
 ↓            ↓         ↓                 ↓
[15]         [13]      [7]               <3>
                    F   ↓   T
                  -----<8>-----
                  ↓           ↓
                 <3>         [9]
                              ↓
                             <3>
```

no brain power you know what to do.


# Question 8 (Mutation Testing) - 15 Points   
 
> Consider the following function:
```java
1. public int sum(int n) { 
2.    int sum = 0; 
3.    for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) { 
4.        if (i % 3 == 0 || i % 5 == 0) { 
5.            sum += i; 
6.        } 
7.    } 
8.    return sum; 
9. }
```
 
Answer the following three questions for each of the following mutation operators: 
- Relational operator replacement (ror) 
- Arithmetic operator replacement (aor) 
- Constant for constant replacement (crp)  
 
1. Identify all lines that can be mutated using that operator.  
2. Choose one line that can be mutated by that operator and create one non-equivalent mutant. 
3. For that mutant, provide test input that would detect the mutant. Show how the output 
(return value of the method) differs from that of the original program. 



